=pod

=head1 NAME

File::Find::Rule::VCS - Exclude files/directories for Version Control Systems

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use File::Find::Rule      ();
  use File::Find::Rule::VCS ();

  # Find all files smaller than 10k, ignoring version control files
  my @files = File::Find::Rule->ignore_vcs
                              ->file
                              ->size('<10Ki')
                              ->in( $dir );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Many tools need to be equally useful both on ordinary files, and on code
that has been checked out from revision control systems.

B<File::Find::Rule::VCS> provides quick and convenient methods to
exclude the version control directories of several major Version
Control Systems (currently CVS, subversion, and Bazaar).

B<File::Find::Rule::VCS> implements methods to ignore the following:

=over 4

=item B<CVS>

=item B<Subversion>

=item B<Bazaar>

=back

In addition, the following version control systems do not create
directories in the checkout and do not require the use of any
ignore methods

=over 4

=item B<SVK>

=item B<Git>

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 ignore_vcs

  # Ignore all common version control systems
  $find->ignore_vcs;

  # Ignore a specific named version control systems
  $find->ignore_vcs($name);

  # Ignore nothing (silent pass-through)
  $find->ignore_vcs('');

The C<ignore_vcs> method excludes the files for a named Version Control
System from your L<File::Find::Rule> search.

If passed, the name of the version control system is case in-sensitive.
Names currently supported are 'cvs', 'svn', 'subversion', 'bzr', and
'bazaar'.

As a convenience for high-level APIs, if the VCS name is the defined
null string B<''> then the call will be treated as a nullop.

If no params at all are passed, this method will ignore all supported
version control systems. If ignoring every version control system,
please note that any legitimate directories called "CVS" or files
starting with .# will be ignored, which is not always desirable.

In widely-distributed code, you instead should try to detect the specific
version control system used and call ignore_vcs with the specific name.

Passing C<undef>, or an unsupported name, will throw an exception.

=head2 ignore_cvs

The C<ignore_cvs> method excluding all CVS directories from your
L<File::Find::Rule> search.

It will also exclude all the files left around by CVS after an
automated merge that start with C<'.#'> (dot-hash).

=head2 ignore_rcs

The C<ignore_rcs> method excluding all RCS directories from your
L<File::Find::Rule> search.

It will also exclude all the files used by RCS to store the revisions
(end with C<',v'>).

=head2 ignore_svn

The C<ignore_svn> method excluding all Subversion (C<.svn>) directories
from your L<File::Find::Rule> search.

=head2 ignore_bzr

The C<ignore_bzr> method excluding all Bazaar (C<.bzr>) directories
from your L<File::Find::Rule> search.

=head2 ignore_git

The C<ignore_git> method excluding all Git (C<.git>) directories
from your L<File::Find::Rule> search.

=head2 ignore_hg

The C<ignore_hg> method excluding all Mercurial/Hg (C<.hg>) directories
from your L<File::Find::Rule> search.

=head1 TO DO

- Add support for other version control systems.

- Add other useful VCS-related methods

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs should always be submitted via the CPAN bug tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=File-Find-Rule-VCS>

For other issues, contact the maintainer

=head1 AUTHOR

Adam Kennedy E<lt>adamk@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://ali.as/>, L<File::Find::Rule>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005 - 2010 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

=cut
